cartographer_ros/README.md, before:

# Cartographer Project Overview

See https://github.com/googlecartographer/cartographer

## Installation

On Ubuntu 14.04 (Trusty) with ROS Indigo installed:

    # Install the required libraries that are available as debs
    sudo apt-get install \
      ros-indigo-tf2-eigen \
      g++ \
      google-mock \
      libboost-all-dev \
      liblua5.2-dev \
      libprotobuf-dev \
      libwebp-dev \
      protobuf-compiler \
      python-sphinx \
      libblas-dev \
      liblapack-dev \
      libpcap-dev  # For 3D SLAM with Velodynes

    # Set up your Catkin workspace
    mkdir -p ~/catkin_ws/src
    cd ~/catkin_ws/src
    source /opt/ros/indigo/setup.bash
    catkin_init_workspace

    # Clone the necessary repos into your Catkin workspace
    git clone https://github.com/googlecartographer/cartographer.git
    git clone https://github.com/googlecartographer/cartographer_ros.git
    git clone https://github.com/ethz-asl/ceres_catkin.git
    git clone https://github.com/ethz-asl/suitesparse.git
    git clone https://github.com/ethz-asl/glog_catkin.git
    git clone https://github.com/ethz-asl/gflags_catkin.git
    git clone https://github.com/ethz-asl/catkin_simple.git
    git clone https://github.com/ros-drivers/velodyne.git  # For 3D SLAM with Velodynes

    # Build everything in your Catkin workspace
    cd ~/catkin_ws
    catkin_make_isolated
    source devel_isolated/setup.bash

Commit message:

[cartographer_ros] Optional install instructions using wstool (#8)
* Adds rosinstall file
* Adds optional install instructions using wstool

Original commit:
googlecartographer/cartographer_ros@61055d1dcb6b3d374cd14699b44e2882349ac83d

cartographer_ros/README.md, after:

# Cartographer Project Overview

See https://github.com/googlecartographer/cartographer

## Installation

Installation has been tested on Ubuntu 14.04 (Trusty) with ROS Indigo. There are multiple options for building cartographer_ros as part of a ROS workspace. Two common use cases are described below.

These dependencies always have to be installed:

    # Install the required libraries that are available as debs
    sudo apt-get install \
      ros-indigo-tf2-eigen \
      g++ \
      google-mock \
      libboost-all-dev \
      liblua5.2-dev \
      libprotobuf-dev \
      libwebp-dev \
      protobuf-compiler \
      python-sphinx \
      libblas-dev \
      liblapack-dev \
      libpcap-dev  # For 3D SLAM with Velodynes


### Standalone Workspace

    # Set up your Catkin workspace
    mkdir -p ~/catkin_ws/src
    cd ~/catkin_ws/src
    source /opt/ros/indigo/setup.bash
    catkin_init_workspace

    # Clone the necessary repos into your Catkin workspace
    git clone https://github.com/googlecartographer/cartographer.git
    git clone https://github.com/googlecartographer/cartographer_ros.git
    git clone https://github.com/ethz-asl/ceres_catkin.git
    git clone https://github.com/ethz-asl/suitesparse.git
    git clone https://github.com/ethz-asl/glog_catkin.git
    git clone https://github.com/ethz-asl/gflags_catkin.git
    git clone https://github.com/ethz-asl/catkin_simple.git
    git clone https://github.com/ros-drivers/velodyne.git  # For 3D SLAM with Velodynes

    # Build everything in your Catkin workspace
    cd ~/catkin_ws
    catkin_make_isolated
    source devel_isolated/setup.bash

### Using wstool

If cartographer_ros is to be used as part of a pre-existing workspace/existing project, using [wstool](http://wiki.ros.org/wstool) is recommended.

    # Enter workspace root (i.e. the folder that has "src" as a subfolder)
    # Merge the cartographer_ros rosinstall file
    wstool merge https://raw.githubusercontent.com/googlecartographer/cartographer_ros/master/cartographer_ros.rosinstall

    # Update workspace
    wstool update

    # Build workspace contents. It is recommended to use catkin tools:
    catkin build
