cartographer_ros/README.rst, before:

.. Copyright 2016 The Cartographer Authors

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

..      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.

============================
Cartographer ROS Integration
============================

|build| |docs|

Purpose
=======

`Cartographer`_ is a system that provides real-time simultaneous localization
and mapping (`SLAM`_) in 2D and 3D across multiple platforms and sensor
configurations. This project provides Cartographer's ROS integration.

.. _Cartographer: https://github.com/googlecartographer/cartographer
.. _SLAM: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simultaneous_localization_and_mapping

Documentation
=============

You will find complete documentation for using Cartographer with ROS at `our
Read the Docs site`_.

.. _our Read the Docs site: https://google-cartographer-ros.readthedocs.io

Contributing
============

You can find information about contributing to Cartographer's ROS integration
at `our Contribution page`_.

.. _our Contribution page: https://github.com/googlecartographer/cartographer_ros/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md

.. |build| image:: https://travis-ci.org/googlecartographer/cartographer_ros.svg?branch=master
    :alt: Build Status
    :scale: 100%
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/googlecartographer/cartographer_ros

.. |docs| image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/google-cartographer-ros/badge/?version=latest
    :alt: Documentation Status
    :scale: 100%
    :target: https://google-cartographer-ros.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest

Commit message:

[cartographer_ros] Improves documentation. (#97)
* Adds system requirements to the documentation.
* References our mailing list.

Original commit:
googlecartographer/cartographer_ros@7a70ef92a6bbb8dc317062cfa593a62bba675e85

cartographer_ros/README.rst, after:

.. Copyright 2016 The Cartographer Authors

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

..      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.

============================
Cartographer ROS Integration
============================

|build| |docs|

Purpose
=======

`Cartographer`_ is a system that provides real-time simultaneous localization
and mapping (`SLAM`_) in 2D and 3D across multiple platforms and sensor
configurations. This project provides Cartographer's ROS integration.

.. _Cartographer: https://github.com/googlecartographer/cartographer
.. _SLAM: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simultaneous_localization_and_mapping

Getting started
===============

* Learn to use Cartographer with ROS at `our Read the Docs site`_.
* Please join the `mailing list`_ and ask questions.

.. _our Read the Docs site: https://google-cartographer-ros.readthedocs.io
.. _mailing list: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/google-cartographer

Contributing
============

You can find information about contributing to Cartographer's ROS integration
at `our Contribution page`_.

.. _our Contribution page: https://github.com/googlecartographer/cartographer_ros/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md

.. |build| image:: https://travis-ci.org/googlecartographer/cartographer_ros.svg?branch=master
    :alt: Build Status
    :scale: 100%
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/googlecartographer/cartographer_ros
.. |docs| image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/google-cartographer-ros/badge/?version=latest
    :alt: Documentation Status
    :scale: 100%
    :target: https://google-cartographer-ros.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest
