cartographer_ros/docs/source/compilation.rst, before:

.. Copyright 2018 The Cartographer Authors

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

..      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.

==========================
Compiling Cartographer ROS
==========================

System Requirements
===================

The Cartographer ROS requirements are the same as `the ones from Cartographer`_.

The following `ROS distributions`_ are currently supported:

* Indigo
* Kinetic
* Lunar
* Melodic

.. _the ones from Cartographer: https://google-cartographer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#system-requirements
.. _ROS distributions: http://wiki.ros.org/Distributions

Building & Installation
=======================

In order to build Cartographer ROS, we recommend using `wstool <http://wiki.ros.org/wstool>`_ and `rosdep
<http://wiki.ros.org/rosdep>`_. For faster builds, we also recommend using
`Ninja <https://ninja-build.org>`_.

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install -y python-wstool python-rosdep ninja-build

Create a new cartographer_ros workspace in 'catkin_ws'.

.. code-block:: bash

    mkdir catkin_ws
    cd catkin_ws
    wstool init src
    wstool merge -t src https://raw.githubusercontent.com/googlecartographer/cartographer_ros/master/cartographer_ros.rosinstall
    wstool update -t src

Install cartographer_ros' dependencies (proto3 and deb packages).
The command 'sudo rosdep init' will print an error if you have already executed it since installing ROS. This error can be ignored.

.. code-block:: bash

    src/cartographer/scripts/install_proto3.sh 
    sudo rosdep init
    rosdep update
    rosdep install --from-paths src --ignore-src --rosdistro=${ROS_DISTRO} -y

Build and install.

.. code-block:: bash

    catkin_make_isolated --install --use-ninja

Commit message:

[cartographer_ros] Updated doc to remove abseil-cpp from ROS (#1211)
I have added a few lines to the doc to alert users to remove ros abseil-cpp and also to change the rosinstall file if they wish to checkout a different version of cartographer. As discussed in #1208

Original commit:
googlecartographer/cartographer_ros@2d9b751d51789e0c1adda20e20af2f131e6b3703

cartographer_ros/docs/source/compilation.rst, after:

.. Copyright 2018 The Cartographer Authors

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

..      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.

==========================
Compiling Cartographer ROS
==========================

System Requirements
===================

The Cartographer ROS requirements are the same as `the ones from Cartographer`_.

The following `ROS distributions`_ are currently supported:

* Indigo
* Kinetic
* Lunar
* Melodic

.. _the ones from Cartographer: https://google-cartographer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#system-requirements
.. _ROS distributions: http://wiki.ros.org/Distributions

Building & Installation
=======================

In order to build Cartographer ROS, we recommend using `wstool <http://wiki.ros.org/wstool>`_ and `rosdep
<http://wiki.ros.org/rosdep>`_. For faster builds, we also recommend using
`Ninja <https://ninja-build.org>`_.

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install -y python-wstool python-rosdep ninja-build

Create a new cartographer_ros workspace in 'catkin_ws'.

.. code-block:: bash

    mkdir catkin_ws
    cd catkin_ws
    wstool init src
    wstool merge -t src https://raw.githubusercontent.com/googlecartographer/cartographer_ros/master/cartographer_ros.rosinstall
    wstool update -t src

Install cartographer_ros' dependencies (proto3 and deb packages).
The command 'sudo rosdep init' will print an error if you have already executed it since installing ROS. This error can be ignored.

.. code-block:: bash

    src/cartographer/scripts/install_proto3.sh 
    sudo rosdep init
    rosdep update
    rosdep install --from-paths src --ignore-src --rosdistro=${ROS_DISTRO} -y

If you build cartographer from master. Change/remove the version in the cartographer_ros.rosinstall.

Additionally, uninstall the ros abseil-cpp using

.. code-block:: bash
   sudo apt-get remove ros-${ROS_DISTRO}-abseil-cpp 

Build and install.

.. code-block:: bash

    catkin_make_isolated --install --use-ninja
