cartographer_ros/docs/source/index.rst, before:

.. Copyright 2016 The Cartographer Authors

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

..      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.

============================
Cartographer ROS Integration
============================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :hidden:

   configuration
   ros_api
   data
   faq

`Cartographer`_ is a system that provides real-time simultaneous localization
and mapping (`SLAM`_) in 2D and 3D across multiple platforms and sensor
configurations. This project provides Cartographer's ROS integration.

.. _Cartographer: https://github.com/googlecartographer/cartographer
.. _SLAM: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simultaneous_localization_and_mapping

System Requirements
===================

See Cartographer's :ref:`system requirements <cartographer:system-requirements>`.

The following `ROS distributions`_ are currently supported:

* Indigo
* Kinetic

.. _ROS distributions: http://wiki.ros.org/Distributions

Building & Installation
=======================

We recommend using `wstool <http://wiki.ros.org/wstool>`_ and `rosdep
<http://wiki.ros.org/rosdep>`_. For faster builds, we also recommend using
`Ninja <https://ninja-build.org>`_.

  .. code-block:: bash

    # Install wstool and rosdep.
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install -y python-wstool python-rosdep ninja-build

    # Create a new workspace in 'catkin_ws'.
    mkdir catkin_ws
    cd catkin_ws
    wstool init src

    # Merge the cartographer_ros.rosinstall file and fetch code for dependencies.
    wstool merge -t src https://raw.githubusercontent.com/googlecartographer/cartographer_ros/master/cartographer_ros.rosinstall
    wstool update -t src

    # Install deb dependencies.
    rosdep init
    rosdep update
    rosdep install --from-paths src --ignore-src --rosdistro=${ROS_DISTRO} -y

    # Build and install.
    catkin_make_isolated --install --use-ninja
    source install_isolated/setup.bash

Running the demos
=================

Now that Cartographer and Cartographer's ROS integration are installed,
download the example bags (e.g. 2D and 3D backpack collections of the
`Deutsches Museum <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deutsches_Museum>`_) to a
known location, in this case ``~/Downloads``, and use ``roslaunch`` to bring up
the demo:

  .. code-block:: bash

    # Download the 2D backpack example bag.
    wget -P ~/Downloads https://storage.googleapis.com/cartographer-public-data/bags/backpack_2d/cartographer_paper_deutsches_museum.bag

    # Launch the 2D backpack demo.
    roslaunch cartographer_ros demo_backpack_2d.launch bag_filename:=${HOME}/Downloads/cartographer_paper_deutsches_museum.bag

    # Download the 3D backpack example bag.
    wget -P ~/Downloads https://storage.googleapis.com/cartographer-public-data/bags/backpack_3d/b3-2016-04-05-14-14-00.bag

    # Launch the 3D backpack demo.
    roslaunch cartographer_ros demo_backpack_3d.launch bag_filename:=${HOME}/Downloads/b3-2016-04-05-14-14-00.bag

    # Download the Revo LDS example bag.
    wget -P ~/Downloads https://storage.googleapis.com/cartographer-public-data/bags/revo_lds/cartographer_paper_revo_lds.bag

    # Launch the Revo LDS demo.
    roslaunch cartographer_ros demo_revo_lds.launch bag_filename:=${HOME}/Downloads/cartographer_paper_revo_lds.bag

    # Download the PR2 example bag.
    wget -P ~/Downloads https://storage.googleapis.com/cartographer-public-data/bags/pr2/2011-09-15-08-32-46.bag

    # Launch the PR2 demo.
    roslaunch cartographer_ros demo_pr2.launch bag_filename:=${HOME}/Downloads/2011-09-15-08-32-46.bag

    # Download the Taurob Tracker example bag.
    wget -P ~/Downloads https://storage.googleapis.com/cartographer-public-data/bags/taurob_tracker/taurob_tracker_simulation.bag

    # Launch the Taurob Tracker demo.
    roslaunch cartographer_ros demo_taurob_tracker.launch bag_filename:=${HOME}/Downloads/taurob_tracker_simulation.bag

The launch files will bring up ``roscore`` and ``rviz`` automatically.

Commit message:

[cartographer_ros] Update documentation, clean up rviz plugin CMakeLists (#302)
- Among the lines added in #150, the one that fixes building with Qt5 is
  the following line:

  include_directories(${Qt5Widgets_INCLUDE_DIRS})

  The rest is redundant and actually doesn't do anything. A CMake
  variable named QtX_INCLUDE_DIRS is not defined when find_package()-ing
  Qt. Also, there is no need to find_package() Qt5 Widgets twice.

- In documentation, add sudo to rosdep init invocation, following
  http://wiki.ros.org/rosdep. Add a comment about the error which will
  be printed if the user has already run sudo rosdep init since
  installing ROS.

Original commit:
googlecartographer/cartographer_ros@f730bd581769508a31c6bca11277f495af9b6f3e

cartographer_ros/docs/source/index.rst, after:

.. Copyright 2016 The Cartographer Authors

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

..      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.

============================
Cartographer ROS Integration
============================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :hidden:

   configuration
   ros_api
   data
   faq

`Cartographer`_ is a system that provides real-time simultaneous localization
and mapping (`SLAM`_) in 2D and 3D across multiple platforms and sensor
configurations. This project provides Cartographer's ROS integration.

.. _Cartographer: https://github.com/googlecartographer/cartographer
.. _SLAM: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simultaneous_localization_and_mapping

System Requirements
===================

See Cartographer's :ref:`system requirements <cartographer:system-requirements>`.

The following `ROS distributions`_ are currently supported:

* Indigo
* Kinetic

.. _ROS distributions: http://wiki.ros.org/Distributions

Building & Installation
=======================

We recommend using `wstool <http://wiki.ros.org/wstool>`_ and `rosdep
<http://wiki.ros.org/rosdep>`_. For faster builds, we also recommend using
`Ninja <https://ninja-build.org>`_.

  .. code-block:: bash

    # Install wstool and rosdep.
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install -y python-wstool python-rosdep ninja-build

    # Create a new workspace in 'catkin_ws'.
    mkdir catkin_ws
    cd catkin_ws
    wstool init src

    # Merge the cartographer_ros.rosinstall file and fetch code for dependencies.
    wstool merge -t src https://raw.githubusercontent.com/googlecartographer/cartographer_ros/master/cartographer_ros.rosinstall
    wstool update -t src

    # Install deb dependencies.
    # The command 'sudo rosdep init' will print an error if you have already
    # executed it since installing ROS. This error can be ignored.
    sudo rosdep init
    rosdep update
    rosdep install --from-paths src --ignore-src --rosdistro=${ROS_DISTRO} -y

    # Build and install.
    catkin_make_isolated --install --use-ninja
    source install_isolated/setup.bash

Running the demos
=================

Now that Cartographer and Cartographer's ROS integration are installed,
download the example bags (e.g. 2D and 3D backpack collections of the
`Deutsches Museum <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deutsches_Museum>`_) to a
known location, in this case ``~/Downloads``, and use ``roslaunch`` to bring up
the demo:

  .. code-block:: bash

    # Download the 2D backpack example bag.
    wget -P ~/Downloads https://storage.googleapis.com/cartographer-public-data/bags/backpack_2d/cartographer_paper_deutsches_museum.bag

    # Launch the 2D backpack demo.
    roslaunch cartographer_ros demo_backpack_2d.launch bag_filename:=${HOME}/Downloads/cartographer_paper_deutsches_museum.bag

    # Download the 3D backpack example bag.
    wget -P ~/Downloads https://storage.googleapis.com/cartographer-public-data/bags/backpack_3d/b3-2016-04-05-14-14-00.bag

    # Launch the 3D backpack demo.
    roslaunch cartographer_ros demo_backpack_3d.launch bag_filename:=${HOME}/Downloads/b3-2016-04-05-14-14-00.bag

    # Download the Revo LDS example bag.
    wget -P ~/Downloads https://storage.googleapis.com/cartographer-public-data/bags/revo_lds/cartographer_paper_revo_lds.bag

    # Launch the Revo LDS demo.
    roslaunch cartographer_ros demo_revo_lds.launch bag_filename:=${HOME}/Downloads/cartographer_paper_revo_lds.bag

    # Download the PR2 example bag.
    wget -P ~/Downloads https://storage.googleapis.com/cartographer-public-data/bags/pr2/2011-09-15-08-32-46.bag

    # Launch the PR2 demo.
    roslaunch cartographer_ros demo_pr2.launch bag_filename:=${HOME}/Downloads/2011-09-15-08-32-46.bag

    # Download the Taurob Tracker example bag.
    wget -P ~/Downloads https://storage.googleapis.com/cartographer-public-data/bags/taurob_tracker/taurob_tracker_simulation.bag

    # Launch the Taurob Tracker demo.
    roslaunch cartographer_ros demo_taurob_tracker.launch bag_filename:=${HOME}/Downloads/taurob_tracker_simulation.bag

The launch files will bring up ``roscore`` and ``rviz`` automatically.
