cartographer/README.rst, before:

.. Copyright 2016 The Cartographer Authors

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

..      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.

============
Cartographer
============

|build| |docs| |license|

Announcement: :mega: Next Cartographer Open House Hangout is on Thursday, June 8, 5pm CEST (8am PST) [`Email thread`_, `Hangouts link`_].

.. _Email thread: https://groups.google.com/forum/?utm_medium=email&utm_source=footer#!topic/google-cartographer/K_mPGTeM-DQ
.. _Hangouts link: https://staging.talkgadget.google.com/hangouts/_/google.com/cartographeropenhouse

Purpose
=======

`Cartographer`_ is a system that provides real-time simultaneous localization
and mapping (`SLAM`_) in 2D and 3D across multiple platforms and sensor
configurations.

|video|

.. _Cartographer: https://github.com/googlecartographer/cartographer
.. _SLAM: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simultaneous_localization_and_mapping

Getting started
===============

* Learn to use Cartographer at `our Read the Docs site`_.
* Please join the `mailing list`_ and ask questions.

.. _our Read the Docs site: https://google-cartographer.readthedocs.io
.. _mailing list: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/google-cartographer

Contributing
============

You can find information about contributing to Cartographer at `our Contribution
page`_.

.. _our Contribution page: https://github.com/googlecartographer/cartographer/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md

.. |build| image:: https://travis-ci.org/googlecartographer/cartographer.svg?branch=master
    :alt: Build Status
    :scale: 100%
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/googlecartographer/cartographer
.. |docs| image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/google-cartographer/badge/?version=latest
    :alt: Documentation Status
    :scale: 100%
    :target: https://google-cartographer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest
.. |license| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg
     :alt: Apache 2 license.
     :scale: 100%
     :target: https://github.com/googlecartographer/cartographer/blob/master/LICENSE
.. |video| image:: https://j.gifs.com/wp3BJM.gif
    :alt: Cartographer 3D SLAM Demo
    :scale: 100%
    :target: https://youtu.be/DM0dpHLhtX0

Commit message:

[cartographer] Adds slides and announce next open house. (#321) Original commit: googlecartographer/cartographer@0c3aa32ad2fb0ce92830dcbcffa3ea6929ce65a2

cartographer/README.rst, after:

.. Copyright 2016 The Cartographer Authors

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

..      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.

============
Cartographer
============

|build| |docs| |license|

Purpose
=======

`Cartographer`_ is a system that provides real-time simultaneous localization
and mapping (`SLAM`_) in 2D and 3D across multiple platforms and sensor
configurations.

|video|

.. _Cartographer: https://github.com/googlecartographer/cartographer
.. _SLAM: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simultaneous_localization_and_mapping

Open house
==========

We regularly meet in an open-for-all Google hangout to discuss progress and plans for Cartographer.

The next Cartographer Open House Hangout is on Thursday, June 22, 5pm CEST (8am PST) [`Hangouts link`_].

.. _Hangouts link: https://staging.talkgadget.google.com/hangouts/_/google.com/cartographeropenhouse

- June 8, 2017: `Slides <https://storage.googleapis.com/cartographer-public-data/cartographer-open-house/170608/slides.pdf>`_

Getting started
===============

* Learn to use Cartographer at `our Read the Docs site`_.
* Please join the `mailing list`_ and ask questions.

.. _our Read the Docs site: https://google-cartographer.readthedocs.io
.. _mailing list: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/google-cartographer

Contributing
============

You can find information about contributing to Cartographer at `our Contribution
page`_.

.. _our Contribution page: https://github.com/googlecartographer/cartographer/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md

.. |build| image:: https://travis-ci.org/googlecartographer/cartographer.svg?branch=master
    :alt: Build Status
    :scale: 100%
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/googlecartographer/cartographer
.. |docs| image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/google-cartographer/badge/?version=latest
    :alt: Documentation Status
    :scale: 100%
    :target: https://google-cartographer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest
.. |license| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg
     :alt: Apache 2 license.
     :scale: 100%
     :target: https://github.com/googlecartographer/cartographer/blob/master/LICENSE
.. |video| image:: https://j.gifs.com/wp3BJM.gif
    :alt: Cartographer 3D SLAM Demo
    :scale: 100%
    :target: https://youtu.be/DM0dpHLhtX0
