cartographer/README.md, before:

# Cartographer Project Overview

Cartographer is a system that provides real-time simultaneous localization and
mapping
([SLAM](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simultaneous_localization_and_mapping))
across multiple platforms and sensor configurations.

## Installation instructions

For Ubuntu 14.04 (Trusty):

    sudo apt-get install \
      g++ \
      google-mock \
      libboost-all-dev \
      libgflags-dev \
      libgoogle-glog-dev \
      liblua5.2-dev \
      libprotobuf-dev \
      libsuitesparse-dev \
      libwebp-dev \
      ninja-build \
      protobuf-compiler \
      python-sphinx

Download, build and install Ceres:

    git clone https://ceres-solver.googlesource.com/ceres-solver
    cd ceres-solver
    mkdir build && cd build
    cmake ..
    make
    sudo make install

Build Cartographer:

    cd cartographer
    mkdir build && cd build
    cmake .. -G Ninja
    ninja

## Running with Velodyne data

    apt-get install libpcap-dev
    cd <somwhere>
    git clone git@github.com:ros-drivers/velodyne.git
    cd <catkin_ws>/src
    ln -s <somewhere>/velodyne/velodyne* .

Commit message:

[cartographer] Splits installation instructions into ROS/non-ROS. (#1)
Adds missing ROS dependency to package.xml.

Original commit:
googlecartographer/cartographer@a3fe3181e0a24cd5bcd8ba49176e4aff717a858c

cartographer/README.md, after:

# Cartographer Project Overview

Cartographer is a system that provides real-time simultaneous localization and
mapping
([SLAM](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simultaneous_localization_and_mapping))
across multiple platforms and sensor configurations.

## Installation with ROS

See https://github.com/googlecartographer/cartographer_ros

## Installation without ROS

On Ubuntu 14.04 (Trusty):

    # Install the required libraries that are available as debs
    sudo apt-get install \
      g++ \
      google-mock \
      libboost-all-dev \
      libgflags-dev \
      libgoogle-glog-dev \
      liblua5.2-dev \
      libprotobuf-dev \
      libsuitesparse-dev \
      libwebp-dev \
      ninja-build \
      protobuf-compiler \
      python-sphinx

    # Build and install Ceres
    git clone https://ceres-solver.googlesource.com/ceres-solver
    cd ceres-solver
    mkdir build && cd build
    cmake ..
    make
    sudo make install

    # Build Cartographer
    cd cartographer
    mkdir build && cd build
    cmake .. -G Ninja
    ninja
